What is Kubernetes?

K8s is an open-source container-orchestration engine or a container management	 tool , it automates deploying , scaling and managing containerized application

K8s 

Google - > Cloud Native Computing Foundation

Developed using Go lang

Management includes 

  Deploying 
  Scheduling
  Scaling
  Load balancing
  Batch Execution
  Roll Back
  Monitoring

Kubernetes Components

1. Pod-
   Pod is a group of containerized applications

2. Node
   - a group of pods are called a node , there can exist multiple nodes hence one master node will monitor
     all worker nodes

3. Cluster
   - a groups of nodes form a cluster

4. Replication Controller Replica set
   - When ever a pod is down a clone of the app maintained in the replication set takes the place of the 
     broken pod on a new ip address

5. Service
   since replica pods may take new ips when hosted, the pods intercommunicating may face a challenge
   hence service component of k8s establishes communication through DNS and hence changing ips do not cause 
   problem , Servcie is also responsible for loadbalancing between scaled pod instances to manage
   incoming traffic
   
6. Deployment
    - Deployement are k8s objects that are used for managing pods
    - an app can be scalled by increaasing the number of running pods or update the running app using 
      deployment object.
      
      kuberctl create deployment first-deployment - image=<Docker_Image_name> --port --replicas=4

7. Secrets
    -
    -encrpted text - encrypted secrets

8. Config Map
    config map     - plaintext

9. ETCD(Editable Text Configurations Distributed)

   K8s uses etcd as a key-value database store. It stores the configuration of the k8s cluster in etcd
   It store all the secret and configMap data inside etcd database
   
   Max limit is 1MB to store secrets
   
 ----------------------------------------------------
 
 Master Node 
 1. will monitor all worker node for seamless running
 2. monitors all pods to be working
 3. if any pods are down in a node immediately assign a clone pod with new IP
 4. If any node is down it immidiately it will tag pods to a new node .
     
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   


